[Music]
what's up guys rob from clix geek and
today's video i want to walk you through
how to use the search terms report to
absolutely dominate your competition so
we're going to use a combination of the
search terms report and the auction
insights reporting all right and if you
don't know what search terms report is
all it really is is the
a
a little report where you come over here
to keywords so if you go into a campaign
let's go into our
our campaign here junk removal go into
the campaign this is a live client by
the way so we have some actual data junk
removal
and we'll go into
keywords
come down here to search terms so this
is all we're looking for search terms
and now what google's showing you here
these are the actual terms that trigger
your ad these these are terms that were
typed into google by a user and showed
our ad and they clicked our ad and
either became a lead or not and as you
can see a lot of these guys became leads
so that means that's a good thing that
means our campaign's dialed in i think
this campaign is like a 40 conversion
rate up 32 i'll take it that works
so that's what search terms report is is
what you're looking at and you can
download it into a pdf or whatever up
here
but this is something that you want to
be doing on a weekly basis when it comes
to optimizing your google ads campaigns
you always want to come in here
and just assess the search terms report
and kind of sift through and see what
kind of keywords we should be adding
which kind of keywords we should be
negativing out now what i mean by that
so
not every search that comes through is
going to be super relevant to your
client or your campaign
it's just the nature of the game it
depends on on the keyword match types
you're using to drive traffic now this
campaign in particular is pretty dialed
in so there's not going to be much
negative stuff we should get rid of
but if you're scrolling down here let's
just see if we can find something so
i'll look
after my conversions end
so this is the last 30 days of data so
you're seeing that 90 leads so it's a
lot to sort through okay so these are
working this is where keywords that stop
converting here so let's just kind of
coast through and just see
if there's keywords we don't want
and something else to take note of you
can see the keyword it tells you the
match type that triggered this keyword
and the ad group that it came from which
is pretty cool so junk calling fairfax
that's a good keyword
fairfax county refused to pick up so
that's a that's a good negative keyword
you can see there i excluded that and if
you don't know how to do that it's
really simple i'm going to show you in a
minute so let's just say we would choose
that as a negative
let's keep scrolling down this look
pretty good i don't really see too much
angel junk removal that's probably
another company so that's a brand you
want to get rid of that
cost estimate so that's a misspelling
but that's okay that's
not really a deal breaker
fair and fast junk removal that's
probably another brand so we're going to
get rid of that
that looks like it it's
jungkook will know that now let's
mission statement yeah that's something
we'll get rid of
all right so that's pretty much how you
would find your negative keywords so
that's one aspect of search term report
so we have our negative keywords we go
up here add as negative keyword i do
them at the campaign level if you want
to see i group level i have another
video for that you can just go to the
channel it's under one of the playlists
i believe negative keywords
alright so we come up here we choose
campaign there it all automatically has
an exact match because we don't want
google to show us for those keywords
again
hit save and that's it you just add a
key negative keywords to your account
based on data from the search term
report all right now if let's say we
want to we want to find gold keywords
and add them to our campaign that we're
converting that we weren't previously
bidding on so how you would do that is
the same thing we come over here except
this time we're looking at all of our
conversions
and we're gonna see if we can find any
gold in here that we're not currently
bidding on
so junk haulers alexandria virginia junk
removal that's
pretty good i will take that i mean we
could technically put this
in its own
ad group if we wanted to called junk
callers instead of junk removal for
alexandria but for this purpose this is
fine right now
so we'll do that we'll add that as a
keyword and we'll keep going down here
let's see what we got junk removal
prices
no
how much junk pickup no i don't like
that for that ad group
junk removal arlington this is a good
one
and we're not bidding a junk removal in
arlington virginia
trash removal now that's not a great one
for junk removal ad group
100 junk now
bulk junk removal deals near me
now
cheap junkerville virginia i'm gonna
skip that one so as you can see here i'm
only really trying to add like the most
highest intent
um keywords to my to my ad groups from
the search terms report so i'm not just
adding everything and i suggest you
don't do that honestly
we want to only add the high intense
stuff which is people who have a need
they're searching for and you can tell
the intent of the keyword they have an
urgent need
um and it also has to be in the correct
ad group so i don't want to add junk
removal alexandria to junk removal ad
group i could technically add that to
its own ad group or i believe i have an
alexandria ad group but for the purpose
of this video we're not going to do that
today
lots of geo stuff
so i think that might be it for
junk removers
yeah we could we could do that junk
roller service near me
yes jump roll service in my area yes
now we could add these to junk removal
ad group or we could put them in a junk
removal near me ad group but for this
purposes video that's something we can
add in here that works so let's just say
that's it so we'll take this we'll add
these keywords
and now here's the thing
it's going to
tell you to add these as broad match
please don't at every keyword you add
from from the search terms report you
should add an exact match all right
i that's just my my rule of thumb of how
to do it i broad match is going to bring
you nothing but problems and i tell
everyone that and i get debates about it
all the time and some facebook groups
about broad match first everything else
but broad match is something if
especially if you're an inexperienced
google ad user you're going to run into
trouble and it's probably the number one
thing that we see that causes all the
problems from clients who come to us
from other agencies for our agency
is they've been running campaigns
with broadband so i'm going to add these
real quick these are good keywords um
they come to us from other agencies
who've been running their campaigns with
broad match keywords and
a broad match keyword i'll give you an
example all right so by the way i just
added those into the campaign that's how
easy it is you just add them in the
campaign level and automatically put
some of the correct ad groups which is
cool so a broad match keyword is
something like this so let's say our
broad match keyword is junk removal all
right so we're bidding on junk removal
well google's going to associate junk
removal with
anything any type of keyword in google's
rolodex of billions of keywords that has
the words junk removal in it or related
to it so we could get like
i mean
any like like uh what's a good one like
like weiss weiss dumpster junk removal
stuff like that or
um you know what's another famous
grocery store we see a lot of those from
uh from these types of keywords like
giant junk removal
stuff like that red shoe junk removal
junk removal near me in city whatever
the city has nothing to do with what
you're what you're bidding on
um it's going to give you all your
competitors names are going to be in
here it's just a total mess and you have
to have a massive negative keyword list
to make it work and kind of keep it
under control but my whole point is is
that if you're just bidding on broad
match you're going to be
you're going to be fighting an uphill
battle pretty much so it's just much
easier and you can see this campaign is
super dialed in
it's because most of our keywords are
exact match and we have phrase match as
well but limited because we we only go
after high intent keywords and if you do
if you guys don't know what high intent
keywords are
then i will put a little look up to your
top of your screen right now should be a
thing flashing by to a video where i go
through how to find high intent keywords
that video will definitely show you what
i'm talking about and how to find
keywords that are more geared towards
pulling actual leads and phone calls
versus just broad type keywords not
match broad type keywords
like um
you know just something that's going to
be bringing a bunch of random stuff we
want high intent we want people
searching for a problem and we're
offering them a solution right away
there's no mistaking the intent of the
keywords so that's those are the kind of
keywords that you want to build your
campaigns around sorry i just went off
on a tangent there but just watch the
video you understand what i'm talking
about
so that is pretty much it for the search
terms report you just use it to sift
through your data every like i said
every seven days and add in keywords
that are converting for you that you
that you weren't possibly bidding on um
use it to find negative keywords that
are wasting money for you that you don't
want your ads to show for again and also
now if we go back we can go up to ad
groups and you can actually see
i have another video too on um
auction insights reporting
but i will leave that
for you actually you know what i'll put
a link to that there too
on the top of the screen i'll drop a
link to that too it should flash across
any minute
where you can kind of i go through more
in depth what the um
what the auction insights is but
basically what we're looking at here
is
our
let's sort by impression share all right
so these are all our competitors
and how they're doing compared to us via
impression share and top of the page
stuff outranking so this is a great
little tool when you're when it comes to
coming in to find your bidding for your
ad groups and stuff because you kind of
get us a sense of where you are and you
can see we got two two big guys
updating us but that's all right because
you know our guys are our guys killing
it so we're not worried about that but
anyways i'm not going to go too far at
this but this is something cool too to
look at with your search terms report
when you're going through your campaigns
every seven days or every week or
a couple days whatever your optimization
schedule is this is something also that
you should definitely be looking at to
kind of see where you stand compared to
everyone else in your in your local
market so that's important
so hopefully this video helps with the
uh going through the search terms report
and how to use it it's probably one of
the best tools that there is in adwords
when it comes to optimizing your
campaigns so like i said you should be
doing this every couple days or once a
week or every 30 days is a big one too
you should always do it every 30 days
regardless but you should definitely be
doing it at least once a week and just
going through your keywords and adding
your winners and cutting all your losers
so if you guys have any questions about
search term reports or how to use
anything like that drop them in the
comment section below this video don't
forget to subscribe to our channel just
click the little red button at the
bottom right of the screen and also
check out the description of this video
i put some cool links in there for you
guys
[Music]
you